# Wasm Caching PoC
This is a proof of concept/template for using wasm services to keep track of persistent state such as caches or database pools.
Database pooling does not yet work because there is no proper MySql implementation for wasm32-wasip2. There is an implementation for this in progress on sqlx. You can track that issue [here](https://github.com/launchbadge/sqlx/issues/4056). Otherwise it would be possible implement the mysql protocol in wasm or use a host plugin, but for now it is recommended to wait until sqlx support is finished.

## Creating a wasm service
To create a wasm service, create a wasm component that exports either wasi:cli/run (as done in this template) or a custom wit interface (could not get this to work, the service seems to not start when trying to run it if you do this. May need further experimentation, but wasi:cli/run should be good enough for most use cases.).

## Running a wasm service
- wash dev: For running a service with wash dev you merely need to add `dev.service: true` to your wash config. Any other components that need to run in the same workload ([such as a http component to reach your service](#reaching-the-service)) will need to be specified in `dev.components` with a name and wasm file.
- wasmcloud deployment: To run a wasm service you need to add it as a [WorkloadService](https://wasmcloud.com/docs/kubernetes-operator/api-reference/#workloadservice) to your workload deployment manifest. If the OCI image is private you will need to create a kubernetes docker config secret containing valid credentials to pull it and reference it with the imagePullSecret name on your WorkloadService. For an example of a valid workload deployment manifest, look [here](manifests/workloaddeployment.yaml).

## Reaching the service
You will most likely need a way to reach the wasm service from the outside. The recommended way to handle this is with a separate component that exports wasi:http/incoming-handler. Where you have to send requests to this component depends on how you run it.
- wash dev: Requests to this component can be sent to the wash dev address (0.0.0.0:8000 by default, or can be configured in your wash config at `dev.address`)
- wasmcloud deployment: Requests to this component can be sent to the address of the wasmcloud runtime gateway. In ubunty this is the wasmcloud-gateway service. You may need to open a port on the wasmcloud-gateway to be able to reach it from outside the docker network. This can easily be done by adding `services: wasmcloud-gateway: ports: -{your_port}:8000` to your docker compose override, replacing `{your_port}` with whatever unused port you want to send the requests to. These requests must have a host header matching the host config option on the wasi http incoming handler hostInterface in your workload deployment manifest. Note that this does not have to be a valid host address, it is only used by the runtime gateway to route the requests.